[docs] Restructure permissions docs and add more info (#9141)
expo/expo: docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/permissions.md

> **Note:** by default, the permissions implied by the modules you installed are added to the `AndroidManifest.xml`. To exclude permissions, you have to define the `android.permissions` manifest property or [blacklist them in the bare workflow](#excluding-android-permissions-in-bare-workflow).

## Usage

### Manually testing permissions

Often you want to be able to test what happens when you reject a permission to ensure that it has the desired behavior. An operating-system level restriction on both iOS and Android prohibits an app from asking for the same permission more than once (you can imagine how this could be annoying for the user to be repeatedly prompted for permissions). So in order to test different flows involving permissions, you may need to uninstall and reinstall the Expo app. In the simulator this is as easy as deleting the app and expo-cli will automatically install it again next time you launch the project from it.

> ### Usage in bare workflow

Author: - I think this is only required for the iOS permissions, right? The doc doesn't make that clear, but I can request the permissions on Android without adding any of these libraries.
- Needs to be double-checked and updated if necessary

Author: I double-checked this and added the `on iOS` mention.

### Permissions on iOS

To request and use permissions on iOS, you have to describe why the permissions are required. You can do that by defining `ios.infoPlist` property in your [`app.json` manifest](../../workflow/configuration/#ios) in the managed workflow. When using the bare workflow, you have to edit the `infoPlist` file directly.

See the [`Permission types`](#permission-types) below to learn about what `infoPlist` property you need to define for each permission. You can find the full list of available properties in [Apple's InfoPlistKeyReference](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/General/Reference/InfoPlistKeyReference/Articles/CocoaKeys.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40009251-SW1). Apple also documented the basic guidelines about the structure of the message in the [Human Interface Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/ios/app-architecture/requesting-permission/).

> **Note:** apps using permissions without descriptions _may be rejected from the App Store_. (see the [App Store Deployment Guide](../../distribution/app-stores/#system-permissions-dialogs-on-ios))

### Permissions on Android

> To use permissions on Android, they have to be defined in your `AndroidManifest.xml` first. Some Expo and React Native modules imply these permissions by default. If you use `expo-location`, for example, both the `ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION` and `ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION` are implied and added to your `AndroidManifest.xml` when building a standalone app.

Author: Sounds fair!

See the [`Permission types`](#permission-types) below to learn about which Android permissions are added. You can find a full list of all available permissions in the [Android Manifest.permissions reference](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/Manifest.permission).

<!-- todo: add a list of permissions required by Expo -->

> **Note:** apps using dangerous or signature permissions without valid reasons _may be rejected by Google_. Make sure you follow the [Android permissions best practices](https://developer.android.com/training/permissions/usage-notes) when submitting your app.

> **Note:** by default, the permissions implied by the modules you installed are added to the `AndroidManifest.xml`. To exclude permissions, you have to define the `android.permissions` manifest property or [blacklist them in the bare workflow](#excluding-android-permissions-in-bare-workflow).

### Permissions on Web

> On web permissions like the `Camera` and `Location` can only be requested from a [secure context](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts#When_is_a_context_considered_secure), e.g. using `https://` or `http://localhost`. This limitation is similar to Android's manifest permissions and iOS's infoPlist usage messages and enforced to increase privacy.

Author: This should fix #7037

Please read the [permissions on iOS](#permissions-on-ios) and [permissions on Android](#permissions-on-android) sections carefully before deploying your app to the stores. If you don't configure or explain the permissions properly **it may result in your app getting rejected or pulled from the stores**. Read more about deploying to the stores in the [App Store Deployment Guide](../../distribution/app-stores/#system-permissions-dialogs-on-ios).

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

<InstallSection packageName="expo-permissions" />

### Permissions on iOS

To request permissions on iOS, you have to describe why the permissions are requested and [install the library](#permissions-and-required-packages-on-ios) that can request this permission. In the managed workflow, you can do that by customizing the `ios.infoPlist` property in your [`app.json` file](../../workflow/configuration/#ios). When using the bare workflow, you have to edit the `info.plist` file directly.

> See the [`Permission types`](#permission-types) below to learn about what `infoPlist` property, or you need for each permission. You can find the full list of available properties in [Apple's InfoPlistKeyReference](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/General/Reference/InfoPlistKeyReference/Articles/CocoaKeys.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40009251-SW1). Apple also documents the basic guidelines for the structure of the message in the [Human Interface Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/ios/app-architecture/requesting-permission/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [`Permission types`](#permission-types) below to learn about what `infoPlist` property you need for each permission. You can find the full list of available properties in [Apple's InfoPlistKeyReference](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/General/Reference/InfoPlistKeyReference/Articles/CocoaKeys.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40009251-SW1). Apple also documents the basic guidelines for the structure of the message in the [Human Interface Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/ios/app-architecture/requesting-permission/).
```

| `SYSTEM_BRIGHTNESS`         | `expo-brightness`                         |
| `MOTION`                    | `expo-sensors`                            |

> ### Excluding Android permissions in bare workflow

Author: Was missing, found the workaround with Eric, and a lot of issues in the React Native repository. Having this documented something really useful I think.

#### Returns

> A `Promise` that is resolved with information about the permissions, including status, expiration, and scope (if applicable).

Author: I split this into multiple headers, under `PermissionResponse`. It's a bit hard to understand if written like this.

  status: 'granted' | 'undetermined' | 'denied';
  granted: boolean;
  expires: 'never' | number;
  canAskAgain: boolean;
  permissions: { // an object with an entry for each permission requested
    [permissionType: string /* PermissionType */]: PermissionInfo;
  };
}
```

#### PermissionResponse.status

This property is either `granted`, `undetermined` or `denied`, based on the requested permissions. It's reducted using the following rules.

- When one or more permissions are `undetermined`, the status is `undetermined`
- When one or more permissions are `denied`, but none of them are `undetermined`, the status is `denied`
- When all permissions are `granted`, the status is `granted`.

Here are some examples of permission statuses and the top-level status.

```
[granted, granted, granted] => granted
[granted, granted, denied] => denied
[denied, denied, denied] => denied
[granted, granted, undetermined] => undetermined
[granted, denied, undetermined] => undetermined
```

#### PermissionResponse.granted

This property is set to `true` when all requested permission are granted. If one or more are `denied` or `undetermined`, this is set to `false`.

#### PermissionResponse.expires

> This property is set to the permission that expires the earliest. When none of the requested permissions expires, it's set to `never`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This property coincides with the expiration time of the permission that expires the earliest. When none of the requested permissions expires, it's set to `never`.
```

[location-android-coarse]: https://developer.android.com/reference/android/Manifest.permission#ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION
[location-android-fine]: https://developer.android.com/reference/android/Manifest.permission#ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION

<!-- TODO: Permissions.LOCATION issue (search by this phrase) -->

> **Note (iOS):** This is not working with this permission being not individually, `Permissions.askAsync(Permissions.SOME_PERMISSIONS, Permissions.LOCATION, Permissions.CAMERA, ...)` would throw.
> On iOS ask for this permission type individually.

> **Note (iOS):** In Expo client this permission will always ask the user for permission to access location data while the app is in use.

> **Note (iOS):** iOS provides more detailed permissions, returning `{ status, permissions: { location: { ios } } }` where `ios` which is an object containing: `{ scope: 'whenInUse' | 'always' | 'none' }`
> If you would like to access location data in a standalone app, note that you'll need to provide location usage descriptions in `app.json`. For more information see [Deploying to App Stores guide](../../distribution/app-stores/#system-permissions-dialogs-on-ios).

> #### What location usage descriptions should I provide on iOS?

Author: Moved this as separate header, which should make it more readable.

```ts
interface PermissionResponse {
  status: 'granted' | 'undetermined' | 'denied';
  granted: boolean;
  expires: 'never' | number;
  canAskAgain: boolean;
  permissions: { // an object with an entry for each permission requested
    [permissionType: string /* PermissionType */]: PermissionInfo;
  };
}
```

#### PermissionResponse.status

This property is either `granted`, `undetermined` or `denied`, based on the requested permissions. It's reducted using the following rules.

- When one or more permissions are `undetermined`, the status is `undetermined`
- When one or more permissions are `denied`, but none of them are `undetermined`, the status is `denied`
- When all permissions are `granted`, the status is `granted`.

Here are some examples of permission statuses and the top-level status.

```
[granted, granted, granted] => granted
[granted, granted, denied] => denied
[denied, denied, denied] => denied
[granted, granted, undetermined] => undetermined
[granted, denied, undetermined] => undetermined

> ```

Reviewer: _really_ good idea to include examples here 👍

### `Permissions.MOTION`

The permission for accessing `DeviceMotion` and `DeviceOrientation` in the web browser. This can only be requested from a website using HTTPS (`expo web --https`). This permission cannot be silently retrieved, you can only request it. This permission can only be requested with a user interaction i.e. a button press.

> ## Android: permissions equivalents inside `app.json`

Author: Let's add these under each `Permissions.<TYPE>` instead of a table. The `WRITE_CONTACTS` are optional for example, it's hard to document that in a simple table.
